# Spotify-Mood-Generator

Looking at the start of 2024, Spotify currently has 236 million monthly paying subscribers (Woodward, 2024). Have you ever desired to find random songs related to the mood and genre you are resonating with? Our team is elated to present the Spotify Mood and Genre Selector application. First, input your personal Spotify Client ID and Spotify Client Secret account information into the code. Search "Spotify Developers" online and create a new app with the code information provided. Utilizing the application is simple, with a user being able to select what mood they are feeling from the choices of “Happy,” “Angry,” “Sad,” and “Chill.” Next, the user can decide what genre they want displayed with the choices being pop, rock, hip-hop, jazz, and electronic. Once they submit their response, the application will run through the top 20 artists of that genre, collect their top five songs, creating a list of 100 songs that we check through to find the top 10 that match the user’s selected mood. These 10 songs are then presented in a list of songs and a scatterplot that shows how the mood is calculated. The list allows the user to play the songs by clicking the play button, add them to a playlist, and copy the link for the song.

The random songs provided are based on the highest numeric values of certain components. The variables we are analyzing include danceability, loudness, energy, and tempo. According to the International Journal of Psychology’s report on valence perception in music, there was found to be a significant correlation between high tempo associating with positive valence and slow tempo associating with negative valence (Vieillard et al., 2012). A Spotify Song Analysis was tested for some of these variables and concluded a strong positive correlation between valence and danceability and also with energy and loudness; there is a strong negative correlation between danceability and tempo (Kucukoglu, 2022). The combination of valence and each of these variables gives an overall mood, with the x-axis of the scatterplot displaying the valence and the y-axis being the overall mood on a scale of 0.00 to 1.00 for both. Our team is able to weigh the variables all on the same scale because of the research discussed. The legend of the scatterplot details where the songs (fitting the users mood and genre) lie on the scale with colors.
